bubbles are not uncommon in history
stock market bubbles commodity Bubbles
and let us not forget real estate
bubbles prices can rise as long as wages
keep up the question is have real wages
kept up with real estate prices you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you today we are going to talk about
Toronto real estate people all around
the world talk about how expensive real
estate has become allow me to introduce
you to the bubble of all bubbles Toronto
real estate look at this chart out of
control Toronto home prices Rose a
record
33% in March from a year earlier this is
a dramatic rise which has gone in just
the recent past we've seen it Go
parabolic and it has been completely
unjustified that's the problem look
we're looking a year-over-year change at
this point but the prices have
consistently been rising we're going to
talk about that in a moment here the you
know there's more in the chart here all
I need to show you is that as interest
rates have been declining real estate
prices have risen and now mortgage rates
have increased a little bit it has not
phased anything simply because they're
still historically very low remember
that
market watch okay this comes out of
Toronto's real estate board and I can't
believe that I'm reading it but I
shouldn't be surprised I really
shouldn't be surprised because it's
obvious it's a bubble everyone is
talking about it the big banks in Canada
are all pointing to it even you know the
biz the bank for international
settlements is talking about how
disastrous things will become should
interest rates rise just a small
percentage and they had the audacity to
say
this right here it has been encouraging
to see that policy makers have not
implemented any kneejerk
policies regarding the GTA housing
market for those who don't know GTA is
greater Toronto area different levels of
government are holding consultations
with Market stakeholders and treb has uh
participated and will continue to
participate look there's a problem and
that is the housing prices are going up
way way faster than wages way faster
it's not even
close and it doesn't matter to those in
the real estate Community because they
are simply making more and more and more
and more money so they have stake in the
game let's say on the left hand side you
have some quick little facts here I want
to cover just a couple of them you know
first of all real GDP growth that's
that's not a real actual indicator um
because the the numbers are
false the unemployment rate is 7.1%
which is definitely higher than what
you'll see in the US so if you want to
just compare that and the interest rates
the equivalent to let say the FED funds
rate in the US is 0.5% right now it's
been there for quite a while you know
they could
increase the amount of interest that the
banks required to borrow and then of
course mortgage rates would rise and so
on they won't they won't do that and I
look at it and I have to realize when
are they going to stop this and the
answer is they have no intention on
doing so anytime soon now let's take
this the numbers are from 2013 but it's
actually gotten even worse
since median home price versus medium
hourly wage in the GTA and I don't have
to tell you which line is which but let
me just say that the red line is the
average wage
and if you look closely it's straight
across the entire time and this chart
goes back to
97 okay compare that to the average home
price and you will see clearly the price
continues to rise every single month it
continues and continues and continues
and during the financial crisis there
was a little setback I mean small very
small short period of time prices after
that that have been escalating so
rapidly particularly after that point
like as if everybody started to jump in
right after that but if you think about
it from the let's say mid90s and onward
you have prices rising so dramatically
and the fact of the matter is that
people aren't getting paid more look if
people were making $250,000 a year these
prices are Justified however that's
clearly not the case unless I'm unaware
of something that's going on
Toronto CMA population and real average
house price growth census the census
this population and housing prices
there's a lot to this let me just cut to
the chase this is a percentage change
and all I wanted to show you was that
the population growth is very small when
you compare that to the actual housing
price growth that's all I wanted to show
you in recent times in The Last 5 Years
in fact the prices have risen so
dramatically in certain cases the the
average selling price in Toronto has
doubled in the past 5 years doubled I
mean it this is real estate this is not
penny stocks we're talking about real
estate and yet the prices have gone so
high what has the government done
nothing they have not made one single
attempt to stop stop this from
happening there is all sorts of foreign
investment taking place not as much as
in Vancouver but that's one thing but
ultimately people are speculating in the
market you can get in with
5% at this time if you pay a little bit
of insurance money you can get him with
a very small portion of money it looks a
lot like what has happened during the
subprime crisis and they are relaxing
lending standards despite what you hear
all the time anybody can get a mortgage
I mean it's it's really silly and the
amount of money they give is all based
on the fact that housing prices will
increase forever more and if you look
many real estate agents that are working
today these individuals have never seen
a decline so surely they'll say well of
course it's not the price is not going
to go up just buy now buy now buy now
the real estate agents are pushing
people other people are pushing other
people you have people in the finance
industry just saying buy homes buy homes
buy homes and people simply can't afford
it but they're doing so anyway because
they're worried they're going to get
completely priced out of the market and
they're going to have to live 3 hours
away to get that home that they really
desire this is a problem that I see that
is so drastic and it's getting worse and
worse and worse the prices just keep up
pushing Higher and Higher and you know
entire condo buildings where you'll have
200 you know up to 3 4 500 units in a
condo they will sell out in a matter of
days a matter of days the prices are
going crazy people are acting euphoric
this is a mania this is a panic and the
government is not trying to stop it
that's when you know you have a bubble
on your hands if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs up
if you'd like this video and you want
more of it then check out my website
check out the uh YouTube videos you can
subscribe to them make sure you click
that subscribe button I have all sorts
of information not just about Canada not
just about Toronto but I have it about
all cities around the world I'm
constantly trying to focus in on
different cities show you that so I try
to be applicable to uh everyone globally
hope you appreciate that and last but
not least if you found the video
informative I know you will find my
books the money GPS and global economic
collapse my new release even more
informative so in the first one you will
get into the asset classes and I will
talk about real estate in there I talk
about the fundamentals I talk about how
real estate makes profit four separate
ways and why it is beneficial to have
maybe not in Toronto maybe you don't
want to get in right now but if you want
the information then that book has it in
the next book the newest book global
economic collapse that talks about the
money GPS strategy which is basically
becoming self-sufficient talk about how
to earn income I talk about tax
incentives reducing your monthly
expenses and all sorts of other things
in there which is very beneficial to
everyone that reads it I assure you if
you want to look through the books go
over to Amazon they have a look inside
feature that will allow you to flip
through the pages and see if you like it
take care